Commentary:

Locke, whose aim is largely to justify the Revolution of 1688, makes 
government depend, not merely at its institution, but always, on the 
consent of the governed, and regards all rulers as liable to be displaced 
if they govern tyrannically. He omits, however, to provide any machinery 
short of revolution for the expression of popular opinion, and, on the 
whole, seems to regard the popular consent as something essentially tacit 
and assumed. He regards the State as existing mainly to protect life and 
property, and is, in all his assertions of popular rights, so cautious as 
to reduce them almost to nothing. It is not till we come to Rousseau that 
the second form of the contract theory is stated in its purest and most 
logical form.

(Popular Consent)

---

The point of the Social Contract theory, as Rousseau states it, is that 
legitimate society exists by the consent of the people, and acts by 
popular will. Active will, and not force or even mere consent, is the 
basis of the "republican" State, which can only possess this character 
because individual wills are not really self-sufficient and separate, but 
complementary and inter-dependent. The answer to the question "Why ought I 
to obey the General Will?" is that the General Will exists in me and not 
outside me. I am "obeying only myself," as Rousseau says. The State is not 
a mere accident of human history, a mere device for the protection of life 
and property; it responds to a fundamental need of human nature, and is 
rooted in the character of the individuals who compose it. The whole 
complex of human institutions is not a mere artificial structure; it is 
the expression of the mutual dependence and fellowship of men. If it means 
anything, the theory of the General Will means that the State is natural, 
and the "state of nature" an abstraction. Without this basis of will and 
natural need, no society could for a moment subsist; the State exists and 
claims our obedience because it is a natural extension of our personality.

(The State, General Will)

--- 

Chapter 9: Real Property

...possession must be taken, not by an empty ceremony, but by labour and cultivation the only sign of proprietorship that should be respected by others, in default of a legal title.

However the acquisition be made, the right which each individual has to his own estate is always subordinate to the right which the community has over all: without this, there would be neither stability in the social tie, nor real force in the exercise of Sovereignty.

I shall end this chapter and this book by remarking on a fact on which the whole social system should rest: i.e. that, instead of destroying natural inequality, the fundamental compact substitutes, for such physical inequality as nature may have set up between men, an equality that is moral and legitimate, and that men, who may be unequal in strength or intelligence, become every one equal by convention and legal right.[1]

[1]Under bad governments, this equality is only apparent and illusory: it serves only to keep the pauper in his poverty and the rich man in the position he has usurped. In fact, laws are always of use to those who possess and harmful to those who have nothing: from which it follows that the social state is advantageous to men only when all have something and none too much.

If then the people promises simply to obey, by that very act it dissolves itself and loses what makes it a people; the moment a master exists, there is no longer a Sovereign, and from that moment the body politic has ceased to exist.

This does not mean that the commands of the rulers cannot pass for general wills, so long as the Sovereign, being free to oppose them, offers no opposition. In such a case, universal silence is taken to imply the consent of the people. This will be explained later on.






