Hash functions make up the basic building blocks of digital property. When applied to basic data structures such as linked lists or binary trees, they change the way we think about the representation of data.
A core property of hash functions is that they are deterministic. This means that the same input will always produce the same output. This is a very useful property when it comes to data integrity. If you hash a piece of data and store the hash, you can later hash the data again and compare the two hashes. If they are the same, the data has not been tampered with. If they are different, the data has been tampered with.
In the context of property writ large, hash functions provide a way to represent data in a way that is tamper-evident. This is a very powerful concept within the context of property rights because a core element of property rights is the ability to prove ownership. Hash functions provide a way to prove ownership of digital property in a way that is tamper-evident.
Even the term "rights" within "property rights" declares that there is a moral or legal claim to the property, or more simplistically, that a claim exists at all. This forms the basis of the concept of ownership. In the digital world, the concept of ownership is a bit more abstract. It is not as simple as holding a physical object. In the digital world, ownership is more about control and access. Hash functions provide a way to prove control and access to digital property by means of verification and tamper-evidence.
Law thus becomes the means by which verification and tamper-evidence are enforced. However, in the digital world, law is insufficient to enforce these concepts. This is because the digital world is global and law is local. This gives rise to cryptographic networks that help to enforce the underlying principles of claims on a property in a way that is global and tamper-evident.
The term "blockchain" while often used to describe a category of technology, is really a specific type of data structure that applies hash functions to existing data structures like linked lists or binary trees. The result is thus a tamper-evident data structure. This is the core innovation. Fusing hash functions with existing data structures to create a new type or class of data structures that are tamper-evident.

Another way to think about something being tamper-evident is to think about it as being "self-evident." This is a term that is often used in the context of law. It means that something is so obvious that it does not need to be proven. In the context of property rights, the concept of self-evidence is very important. It is the basis of the concept of ownership. If something is self-evident, it is owned. If something is not self-evident, it is not owned. This is the basis of the concept of ownership. It is the basis of the concept of property rights.

One example of a popularized cryptographic hash function is SHA-256. SHA-256 is a member of the SHA-2 family of cryptographic hash functions. It is a one-way function, meaning that it is not reversible. This means that you cannot take the output of a hash function and reverse it to get the input. This is a very important property of hash functions. It is what makes them tamper-evident. If you could reverse a hash function, you could tamper with the data and then reverse the hash function to make it look like the data was not tampered with. This is why one-way hash functions are so important. They provide a way to prove that data has not been tampered with.
To be more specific, hash pointers are the functions doing the work. They are the building elements which connect individual data structures, or blocks, to form a chain of data structures, or what is now commonly known as a blockchain.

Hash pointers introduce a new way of thinking about data structures in addition to properties of data integrity and tamper-evidence. Time or temporal properties are also introduced. Hash pointers share a fundamental property with our conception of time in that they are irreversible.

Hash functions more broadly are able to hold these unique properties because they are mathmatically difficult to compute. In other words, they are computationally expensive to reverse. Technically speaking, they are not impossible to reverse, but the computational cost of reversing them is so high that it is effectively impossible. By modern computing standards, it would take exactly 2^256 operations to reverse a SHA-256 hash function. This is a very large number. It is so large that it is effectively impossible to reverse a SHA-256 hash function. This is why SHA-256 is considered to be a secure hash function. It is secure because it is effectively impossible to reverse.

The concept of time is important in the context of property rights. It is yet another way to discern ownership, or rather, our concept or claim to ownership. The mere truth that time can be inexplicably applied to anything suggests that it is a fundamental property of the universe and therefore a fundamental property of property rights. In simpler terms, the order by which events occur is relevant for basic property ownership because it is a way to discern both the claim and the control of the property. A claim or ownership of a property suggests too that it can be transferred or exchanged. In this regard, the existence of an order of events is as significant if not more than the claim itself. This is why the concept of time is so important in the context of property rights. It is the basis of the concept of ownership. It is the basis of the concept of property rights.

Bitcoin is not the first attempt at using hash functions to create a tamper-evident data structure but it is the first successful attempt. Satoshi recognized that cryptographic hash functions alone were not enough, or perhaps on their own are just uninteresting applications to the world. Indeed, in order for hash functions to be useful, they would need to be useful to people. They would need to be used. Something can be both real and true, but unvaluable.

Similar to the fusion between existing data structures and hash functions, the fusion between hash functions and digital networks is what makes Bitcoin more than just a cryptographic curiosity. It is what makes it a new type of property.
